The work of (Fung and Yee, 1998; Rapp, 1995; Rapp, 1999) noted that if an English word e is the translation of a Chinese word c , then the contexts of the two words are similar.
This happened for example when a Chinese word was a non-English person name.
We evaluated our method on each of the 12 half- month periods.
The results when we set M = 10 are shown in Table 1.
So we estimate that English translations are present in the English part of the corpus for Table 2.
So we estimate that English translations are present in the English part of the corpus for Table 2.
As mentioned earlier, for the month of Dec 1995, there are altogether 43 Chinese words that have their translations in the English part of the corpus.
So we estimate that recall (for M = 10) is approximately 115 / 362 = 31.8% . pruning.
Rank of correct translation for period Dec 01 – Dec 15 and Dec 16 – Dec 31.
rank’ is the context rank, ‘Trans.
‘comm’ means the correct translation is a word appearing in the dictionary we used or is a stop word.
As shown in Table 3, using just context information alone, 10 Chinese words (the first 10) have their correct English translations at rank one position.
And using just transliteration information alone, 9 Chinese words have their correct English translations at rank one position.
On the other hand, the work of (Cao and Li, 2002; Fung and Yee, 1998; Rapp, 1995; Rapp, 1999) used only the context of w to locate its translation in a second language.
They combined the two sources of information by weighting the two individual scores, whereas we made use of the average rank for combination.
This research is partially supported by a research grant R252000-125112 from National University of Singapore Academic Research Fund.