26 Proceedings of the 43rd Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 26–33, Ann Arbor, June 2005.
Ciaramita and Johnson (2003) call the noun lex-file classes supersenses.
Ciaramita and Johnson (2003) call the noun lex-file classes supersenses.
Ciaramita (2002) has produced a mini- WORDNET by manually reducing the WORDNET hierarchy to 106 broad categories.
Ciaramita and Johnson (2003) believe that the key sense distinctions are still maintained by supersenses.
Supersense tagging can provide automated or semi- automated assistance to lexicographers adding words to the WORDNET hierarchy.
We have developed a 2 billion word corpus, shallow- parsed with a statistical NLP pipeline, which is by far the Table 2 Example nouns and their supersenses largest NLP processed corpus described in published re search.
The corpus consists of the British National Corpus (BNC), the Reuters Corpus Volume 1 (RCV1), and most of the Linguistic Data Consortium’s news text collected since 1987 Continuous Speech Recognition III (CSRIII); North American News Text Corpus (NANTC); the NANTC Supplement (NANTS); and the ACQUAINT Corpus.
This consists of five passes over each sentence that first identify noun and verb phrase heads and p(w, r, wt ) − p(∗, r, wt )p(w, ∗, ∗) p(∗, r, wt )p(w, ∗, ∗) (2) then collect grammatical relations between each common noun and its modifiers and verbs.
The only similar performing tool is the Trigrams ‘n’ Tags tagger (Brants, 2000) which uses a much simpler statistical model.
If the head verb is a form of be then the VP becomes attributive.
The interaction between the head verb and the preposition determine whether the noun is an indirect object of a ditransitive verb or alternatively the head of a PP that is modifying the verb.
However, sometimes the unknown noun does not appear in our 2 billion word corpus, or at least does not appear frequently enough to provide sufficient contextual information to extract reliable synonyms.
We have experimented with up to 200 voting extracted synonyms.