Two current approaches to English verb classi­ fications are WordNet (Miller et al., 1990) and Levin classes (Levin, 1993).
It is not clear how much WordNet synsets should be expected to overlap with Levin classes, and preliminary indications are that there is a wide discrepancy (Dorr and Jones, 1996), (Jones and Onyshkevych, 1997), (Dorr, 1997).
However, it would be useful for the WordNet senses to have access to the detailed syntactic information that the Levin classes contain, and it would be equally useful to have more guidance as to when membership in a Levin class does in fact indicate shared seman­ tic components.
, Cn} of se-.
isolate semantic components Some of the large Levin classes comprise verbs that exhibit a wide range of possible semantic components, and could be divided into smaller subclasses.
1.
• Although kick is not listed as a verb of exerting force, it displays all the alternations that define this class.
Sim­ ilarly, draw and yank can be viewed as carry verbs al­ though they are not listed as such.
Since intersective classes were built using membership lists rather than the set of defining alterna­ tions, they were similarly incomplete.
Since intersective classes were built using membership lists rather than the set of defining alterna­ tions, they were similarly incomplete.
(verb of exerting force, no separation or causation of accompanied motion implied) 3.
Nora pushed the branches apart..
This distinction appears in the second-order Levin classes as membership vs. nonmember­ ship in the intersective class with split.
This distinction appears in the second-order Levin classes as membership vs. nonmember­ ship in the intersective class with split.
Levin verb classes are based on an underlying lat­ tice of partial semantic descriptions, which are manifested indirectly in diathesis alternations.
The most specific hypernym common to all the verbs in this intersective class is move, displace, which is also a hypernym for other carry verbs not in the intersection.
In addition, only one verb (pull) has a WordNet sense cor­ responding to the change of state - separation semantic component associated with the split class.
Roll and run verbs have seman­ tic components describing a manner of motion that typically, though not necessarily, involves change of location.
The slide class parti­ tions this roll/run intersection into verbs that can take the transitive alternation and verbs that cannot (drift and glide cannot be causative, because they are not typically externally con­ trollable).
"Meander Verbs" Figure 3 Intersections between roll and run verbs of motion and meander verbs of existence 4 Cross-linguistic verb classes.
We also investigated the Portuguese translation of some intersective classes of motion verbs.
We selected the slide/roll/run, meander/roll and roll/run intersective classes.
We selected the slide/roll/run, meander/roll and roll/run intersective classes.
The elements of the slide/roll/run class are rebater (bounce), flutuar (float), rolar ( rolQ and deslizar (slide).
The resultative in Portuguese cannot be expressed in the same way as in En­ glish.
It takes a gerund plus a reflexive, as in A porta deslizou abrindose (The door slid opening itself).
Transitivity is also not always preserved in the translations.
The exception to this, as just noted, is flutuar (float).
The result of this is that ftutuar should move out of the slide class, which puts it with derivar (drift) and pla­ nar (glide) in the closely related roll/run class.
We have presented a refinement of Levin classes, intersective classes, and discussed the potential for mapping them to WordNet senses.
Whereas each WordNet synset is hierarchicalized accord­ ing to only one aspect (e.g., Result, in the case of cut), Levin recognizes that verbs in a class may share many different semantic features, without designating one as primary.
Intersective Levin sets partition these classes according to more co­ herent subsets of features (force, force+motion, force+separation), in effect highlighting a lattice of semantic features that determine the sense of a verb.
Given the incompleteness of the list of members of Levin classes, each verb must be examined to see whether it exhibits all the al­ ternations of a class.
This might be approxi­ mated by automatically extracting the syntac­ tic frames in which the verb occurs in corpus data, rather than manual analysis of each verb, as was done in this study.