We propose an unsupervised method to discover paraphrases from a large untagged corpus, without requiring any seed phrase or other cue.
We focus on phrases which connect two Named Entities (NEs), and proceed in two stages.
There has been a lot of research on such lexical relations, along with the creation of resources such as WordNet.
There has been a lot of research on such lexical relations, along with the creation of resources such as WordNet.
For example, in Information Retrieval (IR), we have to match a user’s query to the expressions in the desired documents, while in Question Answering (QA), we have to find the answer to the user’s question even if the formulation of the answer in the document is different from the question.
We realize the importance of paraphrase; however, the major obstacle is the construction of paraphrase knowledge.
Up to now, most IE researchers have been creating paraphrase knowledge (or IE patterns) by hand and for specific tasks.
As we shall see, most of the linked sets are paraphrases.
If the same pair of NE instances is used with different phrases, these phrases are likely to be paraphrases.
In this subsection, we will report the results of the experiment, in terms of the number of words, phrases or clusters.
We will describe the evaluation of such clusters in the next subsection.
Evaluation within a set The evaluation of paraphrases within a set of phrases which share a keyword is illustrated in Figure 4.
The results, along with the total number of phrases, are shown in Table 1.
This result suggests the benefit of using the automatic discovery method.
Evaluation results for links
There have been other kinds of efforts to discover paraphrase automatically from corpora.
There have been other kinds of efforts to discover paraphrase automatically from corpora.
There has also been work using a bootstrap- ping approach [Brin 98; Agichtein and Gravano 00; Ravichandran and Hovy 02].
Also, the method of using keywords rules out phrases which don’t contain popular words in the domain.
Also, the method of using keywords rules out phrases which don’t contain popular words in the domain.
Rather we believe several methods have to be developed using different heuristics to discover wider variety of paraphrases.
Applications The discovered paraphrases have multiple applications.
We proposed an unsupervised method to discover paraphrases from a large untagged corpus.
We proposed an unsupervised method to discover paraphrases from a large untagged corpus.
We proposed an unsupervised method to discover paraphrases from a large untagged corpus.