These alignment models are similar to the concept of hidden Markov models (HMM) in speech recognition.
A simple extension will be used to handle this problem.
For the translation model Pr(fJ 1 jeI 1), we go on the assumption that each source word is aligned to exactly one target word.
The resulting algorithm has a complexity of O(n!).
(f1; ;mg ; l) 2 (f1; ;mg n fl; l1g ; l0) !
(f1; ;mg n fl1; l2; l3g ;m) German to English the monotonicity constraint is violated mainly with respect to the German verbgroup.
(S; C; j); Not only the coverage set C and the positions j; j0, but also the verbgroup states S; S0 are taken into account.
For each extension a new position is added to the coverage set.
Here, $ is the sentence boundary symbol, which is thought to be at position 0 in the target sentence.
f1; ; Jg denotes a coverage set including all positions from the starting position 1 to position J and j 2 fJ 􀀀L; ; Jg.
The proof is given in (Tillmann, 2000).
The restriction can be expressed in terms of the number of uncovered source sentence positions to the left of the rightmost position m in the coverage set.
4.1 The Task and the Corpus.
Table 3 Training and test conditions for the Verbmobil task (*number of words without punctuation marks).
On average, 6 reference translations per automatic translation are available.
We show translation results for three approaches the monotone search (MonS), where no word reordering is allowed (Tillmann, 1997), the quasimonotone search (QmS) as presented in this paper and the IBM style (IbmS) search as described in Section 3.2.
Here, the pruning threshold t0 = 100 is used.
Here, the pruning threshold t0 = 100 is used.
The computing time is low, since no reordering is carried out.
Table 5 Effect of the beam threshold on the number of search errors (147 sentences).
Search t0 CPU time #search mWER Method [sec] error [%] QmS 0.0 0.07 108 426 1.0 0.13 85 378 2.5 0.35 44 366 5.0 1.92 4 346 10.0 10.6 0 345 IbmS 0.0 0.14 108 434 1.0 0.3 84 395 2.5 0.8 45 391 5.0 4.99 7 383 10.0 28.52 0 382 Table 6 shows example translations obtained by the three different approaches.
Table 6 Example Translations for the Verbmobil task.
Table 6 Example Translations for the Verbmobil task.
We can do that . Input Das ist zu knapp , weil ich ab dem dritten in Kaiserslautern bin . Genaugenommen nur am dritten . Wie ware es denn am ahm Samstag , dem zehnten Februar ? MonS That is too tight , because I from the third in Kaiserslautern . In fact only on the third . How about ahm Saturday , the tenth of February ? QmS That is too tight , because I am from the third in Kaiserslautern . In fact only on the third . Ahm how about Saturday , February the tenth ? IbmS That is too tight , from the third because I will be in Kaiserslautern . In fact only on the third . Ahm how about Saturday , February the tenth ? Input Wenn Sie dann noch den siebzehnten konnten , ware das toll , ja . MonS If you then also the seventeenth could , would be the great , yes . QmS If you could then also the seventeenth , that would be great , yes . IbmS Then if you could even take seventeenth , that would be great , yes . Input Ja , das kommt mir sehr gelegen . Machen wir es dann am besten so . MonS Yes , that suits me perfectly . Do we should best like that . QmS Yes , that suits me fine . We do it like that then best . IbmS Yes , that suits me fine . We should best do it like that .